"Ksh" is a command and programming language that executes commands read from a terminal or a file. Rksh is a restricted version of the command interpreter ksh; See Invocation below for the meaning of arguments to the shell. Definitions. A metacharacter is one of the following characters: ; & ( ) ⎪ < > new-line space tab A blank is a tab or a space. An identifier is a sequence of letters, digits, or underscores starting with a letter or underscore. Identifiers are used as components of variable names. A vname is a sequence of one or more identifiers separated by a . and optionally preceded by a .. Vnames are used as function and variable names. A word is a sequence of characters from the character set defined by the current locale, exclud‐ ing non-quoted metacharacters. A command is a sequence of characters in the syntax of the shell language. The shell reads each command and carries out the desired action either directly or by invoking separate utilities. A built-in command is a command that is carried out by the shell itself without creating a separate process. Some commands are built-in purely for convenience and are not documented here. Built-ins that cause side effects in the shell environ‐ ment and built-ins that are found before performing a path search (see Execution below) are documented here. For historical reasons, some of these built-ins behave differently than other built-ins and are called special built-ins. Commands. A simple-command is a list of variable assignments (see Variable Assignments below) or a sequence of blank separated words which may be preceded by a list of variable assignments (see Environment below). The first word specifies the name of the command to be executed. Except as specified below, the remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. The command name is passed as argument 0 (see exec(2)). The value of a simple-command is its exit status; 0-255 if it terminates normally; 256+signum if it terminates abnormally (the name of the signal corresponding to the exit status can be obtained via the -l option of the kill built-in utility). A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by ⎪. The standard output of each command but the last is connected by a pipe(2) to the standard input of the next command.
